---
date: 2020-07-30
title: "An Introduction to Lidar Data"
description: ""
categories: guides
tags: []
author_staff_member: dgreenwood
image: /assets/images/blog/2020-07-30/
featured_image: /assets/images/blog/2020-07-30/
layout: post
published: false
---


Google Street View cars and backpacks use lots of intere

## Photogrammetry

At its most basic, “photogrammetry” is measuring via photos. It might sound dry and complicated, but its inner workings define the way we fly.

When you send your drone up, it takes pictures of your site with lots of overlap. The 80% overlap on each picture is necessary for two reasons:

For the computer to stitch images together to make the orthophoto.
To capture enough angles of each feature to model it in 3D.

Essentially, if you see the same feature from three or more known positions, you can triangulate its location in space (a.k.a nail down those exact X, Y, and Z coordinates). A feature is any visually distinct point in an image.

If you took an average image from your survey, you’d easily be able to pick out many “features” between images. The more features you match, the better you can relate images to each other and reconstruct objects within them. This is exactly what photogrammetry software does for one feature, and the next, and the next, and so on, until it’s covered your entire site.

Once you have a lot of these features—think millions—you can create a “cloud” of points. Each point has a matched feature describing your surveyed area in that location. You can then turn your point cloud into any regular outputs used in geospatial software, like a 3D mesh or digital elevation model (DEM).


## Light Detection and Ranging (LiDaR).


Invented in the 1960s, lidar stands for “light detection and ranging,” and it measures distances by sending laser pulses at a feature (a tree, the ground itself, a cliff face) and measures the reflected pulses with a sensor. With some trigonometry, you can calculate distances very accurately, and with many, many points of reflection (think millions) you can reconstruct a point-based model of terrain.


Lidar can be likened to sonar or radar, which use sound and radio waves respectively to map surfaces and detect objects. In most cases, lidar uses infrared light. Its hardware can be mounted on a plane, tripod, or automobile, as well as a drone. It’s sometimes called 3D laser scanning.




Often deployed in down-looking systems in the air or oblique geometries in ground systems, a lidar system includes a laser source, a scanner, and a GPS receiver. During a lidar survey, an active optical sensor transmits laser beams toward a target while moving along or rotating across defined survey routes or fixed objects.

The laser energy is reflected by the target and is detected and analyzed by receivers in the lidar sensor. The receiver records the precise time from when the laser pulse left the system to when it is returned to the sensor. Using precise pulse time, the range distance between the sensor and the target may be calculated.





Engineers and earth scientists use lidar to accurately and precisely map and measure natural and constructed features on the earth’s surface, within buildings, underground, and in shallow water. It has broad applications in many industries such as engineering and public safety.



Light detection and ranging, or lidar, is a remote-sensing technology that uses pulsed laser energy (light) to measure ranges (distance).


Light detection and ranging, or lidar, is a remote-sensing technology that uses pulsed laser energy (light) to measure ranges (distance). Engineers and earth scientists use lidar to accurately and precisely map and measure natural and constructed features on the earth’s surface, within buildings, underground, and in shallow water. It has broad applications in many industries such as engineering and public safety.